# Module descriptions - core

This document serves as basic documentation for Caret's AMD modules. It's not
exhaustive, but it will serve as a starting place for anyone wanting to dive
in a little deeper.

Caret's execution starts in main.js, which mostly serves as bootstrap for the
other modules. It also registers command listeners for the UI themes, various
window events, and app-level commands like `app:check-for-updates`. After
that, we really get down to business.

In addition to the module folders, which contain their own readme files, there
are also folders for the current Ace build (ace) and any external libraries
used by Caret, such as the ES6 Promises shim (lib).

## aceBindings.js

Takes care of any messiness between Caret and Ace APIs. Registers the
`ace:command` listener, as well as a bunch of Sublime emulation commands.
Exposes no external methods or data.

## api.js

Registers for chrome.runtime.onMessageExternal events, patching them into the
command module, and dispatches messages from `api:execute` commands. Exposes
no external methods or data.

## command.js

Serves as a messaging buffer between modules, and from declarative DOM
attributes to modules. Exposes three properties: `fire()` for sending
commands, `on()` for subscribing to them, and an array called `list` that can
be used to add palette-only items at runtime.

## editor.js

Sets up the Ace editor and registers for events in the `editor:*` namespace.
Returns the Ace object.

## fileManager.js

Handles opening files from launch data, retained handles, and user commands.
Exposes no external methods or data.

## sessions.js

Manages Caret's tabs, including all UI interaction with the tab bar and the
process of adding or removing tabs. Exposes a number of methods and
manipulating the tab structure. Most of the actual session code is loaded from the `/sessions` folder, to make the file more manageable.

## settings.js

Runs as a RequireJS plugin, so that dependent modules can rely on having
settings available on startup, but actually just returns the same singleton
as `storage/settingsProvider`.

## tab.js

Exposes a Tab constructor to dependents, which is an augmented Ace
EditorSession. Tabs do additional setup work to support Caret, as well as
adding methods for saving files and dropping retained file handles.

